This article is about space theory. There are many version of this theory. Our focus here is in related to Presentation Technology, something we have brought about to your attention some time back. This is article number one, in this series of articles about Presentation Technology.

You must have heard the common "More is Less" principle. Some web designers encourage a sync between more is less and less is more. Well, space theory is quite related to this. But let's be a bit more realistic. Let us think of this in terms of pracitcal life.

What type of places do people like to live in? Do people like extremely cluttered places? or do people like empty places? We think most people like places which are averagely cluttered, and with a tendency towards "less". When in movies, they show the main character speak with God in heaven, they show a bright white empty space with just God and the hero. While this is quite beautiful, if you are in their shoes, you'll find out soon that there is nothing to do there, up in heaven. Specially, in that room. So we need an average amount of stuff around us. We also need space to move about freely. This is where space theory plays a big role.

Move about freely? Is it walking jumping we are talking about? Yes and no. Yes, that too. No, because there are other things you might want to pay attention to. You see, space and freedom of movement is closely related to vision and hearing as well. If your eyes have no space to move around, they you will understand that you are in a "limited" space. If sound appear to reflect on close objects you would feel the space as quite small. So, in space theory, we speak mainly of physical movement and eye movement. In a movie or an advert, you might want to pay interest to sound too. 

So, the idea with using space theory as freedom of movement is something you have to learn to deal with well. It is an art. And as all art works, it cannot be easily explained or tought. But here are our guidelines. 

1. If you need focus on something, make it just bigger than average size, and give empty space just around it for freedom of eye movement. This way, they eye of the user can work itself around this object, and explore it, without any external interference.

2. Unless you border the page by the web-browser(or UI) borders, do not user a border around. This restricts freedom of movement. Always let empty space from inside your page flow like rivers, to the border. Think of your own vision. If you turn your head right, you will still see a new input. You are not used to having a restricion vision border. So make sure the vision is not "bordered" by the outline of your page. While sometimes you might think this gives a grand look, if you expect a user to read the page often, don't do it.

A good place to look for how space theory is used are first person cames and map games. If they game has borders all around the monitor screen, you get tired of the game soon. Good games hide panels off to ease the vision of the user around the borders.

So far, so good. While the idea here is clear, maybe we were not very good at explaining it to you. Honestly, this is due to two reasons. The first is that we are always in a hurry so we try to get things on paper as-is. Second is, though we are in a hurry, we do want you to hear it, and we hate ingoring the opportunity so we go for it, regardless of the quality.

Untill next time... keep good.